README.md, before:

# Next.js App Router Course - Starter

This is the starter template for the Next.js App Router Course. It contains the starting code for the dashboard application.

For more information, see the [course curriculum](https://nextjs.org/learn) on the Next.js Website.

## Useful Infos

### Steps for enabling **Geist font** as a main font

1. Downloading files from Vercel/Google site
2. Placing fonts to the `/public/fonts/...`
3. Adding these lines to the `tailwind.config.ts`

```TypeScript
      fontFamily: {
        sans: 'var(--font-sans)',
        mono: 'var(--font-mono)',
      },
```

1. Adding font references to the root `layout.tsx` file:

```TypeScript
`import localFont from 'next/font/local'`

// Define the variable font
const geistSans = localFont({
  src: '../public/fonts/Geist.woff2', // Single variable font file
  variable: '--font-sans', // CSS variable for usage
  weight: '100 900', // Variable font supports a range of weights
  style: 'normal',
});

const geistMono = localFont({
  src: '../public/fonts/GeistMono.woff2', // Assuming you also have a mono variable font
  variable: '--font-mono',
  weight: '100 900',
  style: 'normal',
});

return (
  <html lang="en" className={`${geistSans.variable} ${geistMono.variable}`}>
      <body>{children}</body>
  </html>
  );
```

### Pick your TypeScript engine

Ctrl + P --> Select TypeScript Version.

### Optimizing Fonts

## There are two ways of optimizing fonts

1. Is to use `next/font/google`
2. Is to use `next/font/local`

- When using `next/font/local` we have to host/list fonts within `layout.tsx` file, other way, application does not "see" the font files inside of folder.

- For the `next/font/google` tutorials advices to create a `fonts.ts` file withing `ui` folder and paste there `imports` and **fonts**. Like this:

```TypeScript
import { Inter, Lusitana } from 'next/font/google';

export const inter = Inter({ subsets: ['latin'] });

export const lusitana = Lusitana({ subsets: ['latin'], weight: ['400', '700'] });

```

Afterwards it could be used on `<body>` element with back ticks, after importing the `fonts.ts` to the `layout.tsx`:

```HTML
<body className={ `${lusitana.className} 'antialiased'`} >{children}</body>
```

## !IMPORTANT\*\*

When hosting web fonts from a folder (`fonts`), then it is important to use the **_fontName_**`.variable` on the `<HTML>` element in the `layout.tsx` and not the **_fontName_**`.className`. Because in this way, the application thinks, that the variables are not defined, even if they are in the `tailwind.config.ts` Example below:

```TypeScript
  return (
    /**This is the CORRECT one */
    <html lang="en" className={`${geistSans.variable} ${geistMono.variable}`}>
    </html>
  );

    return (
    /**This is the WRONG one */
    <html lang="en" className={`${geistSans.className} ${geistMono.className}`}>
    </html>
  );

```

With the **correct** implementation, we are now able to use `tailwind css` utility variables/classes (`--font-sans`).

## Images

- `Next.js` hast an `<Image/>` component, which is automatically optimizes static images we have in our application to prevent [Cumulative Layout Shift](https://vercel.com/blog/how-core-web-vitals-affect-seo).

- Images should have 4 **_Required_** Props: `src`, `width`, `height` and `alt`.

## Routes

- Folders structure is a representation of the routes in `Next.js`. For example `app --> dashboard` will lead to the following URL: `https://dashboard` and so on. This is how you can create different pages in Next.js: create a new route segment using a folder, and add a `page.tsx` file inside it.
- Each folder could have a shared layout with its all sub URLs by creating `layout.tsx` file in it.

## Icons in this Project

- This Project uses [Heroicons](https://heroicons.com/).

## Conditional class name applying

- `clsx` library allows us apply `css` classes depending on conditions.

## Waterfall requests vs Parallel requests

- Using JavaScript we are able to control how and when our requests are proceed:

1. Waterfall

   ```JavaScript
     const revenue = await fetchRevenue()
     const latestInvoices = await fetchLatestInvoices()
     const cardData = await fetchCardData()
   ```

2. Parallel

   ```JavaScript
       const data = await Promise.all([
     invoiceCountPromise,
     customerCountPromise,
     invoiceStatusPromise,
   ]);
   ```

Both of Methods have their own advantages and disadvantages.

## Importing and creating variables

- What I've found out today that we can import several `functions` from a single file in a **single** `import` statement. For example:

```JavaScript
import {
  fetchRevenue,
  fetchLatestInvoices,
  fetchCardData,
} from '@/app/lib/data';
```

and not

```JavaScript
import { fetchRevenue } from '@/app/lib/data';
import { fetchLatestInvoices } from '@/app/lib/data';
import { fetchCardData } from '@/app/lib/data';
```

- Same story with `variables/constants`:
  either this way

```TypeScript
  const {
   numberOfInvoices,
   numberOfCustomers,
   totalPaidInvoices,
   totalPendingInvoices,
 } = await fetchCardData();

 // and use them then like this
       <Card title="Collected" value={totalPaidInvoices} type="collected" />
       <Card title="Pending" value={totalPendingInvoices} type="pending" />
       <Card title="Total Invoices" value={numberOfInvoices} type="invoices" />
       <Card
         title="Total Customers"
         value={numberOfCustomers}
         type="customers"
       />
```

or

```TypeScript
const cardData = await fetchCardData();

// and use them like this

       <Card title="Collected" value={cardData.totalPaidInvoices} type="collected" />
       <Card title="Pending" value={cardData.totalPendingInvoices} type="pending" />
       <Card title="Total Invoices" value={cardData.numberOfInvoices} type="invoices" />
       <Card
         title="Total Customers"
         value={cardData.numberOfCustomers}
         type="customers"
       />
```

Commit message:

Implement first Server Action with revalidatePath and redirect to control the routing behavior of the app.

README.md, after:

# Next.js App Router Course - Starter

This is the starter template for the Next.js App Router Course. It contains the starting code for the dashboard application.

For more information, see the [course curriculum](https://nextjs.org/learn) on the Next.js Website.

## Useful Infos

### Steps for enabling **Geist font** as a main font

1. Downloading files from Vercel/Google site
2. Placing fonts to the `/public/fonts/...`
3. Adding these lines to the `tailwind.config.ts`

```TypeScript
      fontFamily: {
        sans: 'var(--font-sans)',
        mono: 'var(--font-mono)',
      },
```

1. Adding font references to the root `layout.tsx` file:

```TypeScript
`import localFont from 'next/font/local'`

// Define the variable font
const geistSans = localFont({
  src: '../public/fonts/Geist.woff2', // Single variable font file
  variable: '--font-sans', // CSS variable for usage
  weight: '100 900', // Variable font supports a range of weights
  style: 'normal',
});

const geistMono = localFont({
  src: '../public/fonts/GeistMono.woff2', // Assuming you also have a mono variable font
  variable: '--font-mono',
  weight: '100 900',
  style: 'normal',
});

return (
  <html lang="en" className={`${geistSans.variable} ${geistMono.variable}`}>
      <body>{children}</body>
  </html>
  );
```

### Pick your TypeScript engine

Ctrl + P --> Select TypeScript Version.

### Optimizing Fonts

## There are two ways of optimizing fonts

1. Is to use `next/font/google`
2. Is to use `next/font/local`

- When using `next/font/local` we have to host/list fonts within `layout.tsx` file, other way, application does not "see" the font files inside of folder.

- For the `next/font/google` tutorials advices to create a `fonts.ts` file withing `ui` folder and paste there `imports` and **fonts**. Like this:

```TypeScript
import { Inter, Lusitana } from 'next/font/google';

export const inter = Inter({ subsets: ['latin'] });

export const lusitana = Lusitana({ subsets: ['latin'], weight: ['400', '700'] });

```

Afterwards it could be used on `<body>` element with back ticks, after importing the `fonts.ts` to the `layout.tsx`:

```HTML
<body className={ `${lusitana.className} 'antialiased'`} >{children}</body>
```

## !IMPORTANT\*\*

When hosting web fonts from a folder (`fonts`), then it is important to use the **_fontName_**`.variable` on the `<HTML>` element in the `layout.tsx` and not the **_fontName_**`.className`. Because in this way, the application thinks, that the variables are not defined, even if they are in the `tailwind.config.ts` Example below:

```TypeScript
  return (
    /**This is the CORRECT one */
    <html lang="en" className={`${geistSans.variable} ${geistMono.variable}`}>
    </html>
  );

    return (
    /**This is the WRONG one */
    <html lang="en" className={`${geistSans.className} ${geistMono.className}`}>
    </html>
  );

```

With the **correct** implementation, we are now able to use `tailwind css` utility variables/classes (`--font-sans`).

## Images

- `Next.js` hast an `<Image/>` component, which is automatically optimizes **STATIC** images we have in our application to prevent [Cumulative Layout Shift](https://vercel.com/blog/how-core-web-vitals-affect-seo).

- Images should have 4 **_Required_** Props: `src`, `width`, `height` and `alt`.

## Routes

- Folders structure is a representation of the routes in `Next.js`. For example `app --> dashboard` will lead to the following URL: `https://dashboard` and so on. This is how you can create different pages in Next.js: create a new route segment using a folder, and add a `page.tsx` file inside it.
- Each folder could have a shared layout with its all sub URLs by creating `layout.tsx` file in it.

## Icons in this Project

- This Project uses [Heroicons](https://heroicons.com/).

## Conditional class name applying

- `clsx` library allows us apply `css` classes depending on conditions.

## Waterfall requests vs Parallel requests

- Using JavaScript we are able to control how and when our requests are proceed:

1. Waterfall

   ```JavaScript
     const revenue = await fetchRevenue()
     const latestInvoices = await fetchLatestInvoices()
     const cardData = await fetchCardData()
   ```

2. Parallel

   ```JavaScript
       const data = await Promise.all([
     invoiceCountPromise,
     customerCountPromise,
     invoiceStatusPromise,
   ]);
   ```

Both of Methods have their own advantages and disadvantages.

## Importing and creating variables

- What I've found out today that we can import several `functions` from a single file in a **single** `import` statement. For example:

```JavaScript
import {
  fetchRevenue,
  fetchLatestInvoices,
  fetchCardData,
} from '@/app/lib/data';
```

and not

```JavaScript
import { fetchRevenue } from '@/app/lib/data';
import { fetchLatestInvoices } from '@/app/lib/data';
import { fetchCardData } from '@/app/lib/data';
```

- Same story with `variables/constants`:
  either this way

```TypeScript
  const {
   numberOfInvoices,
   numberOfCustomers,
   totalPaidInvoices,
   totalPendingInvoices,
 } = await fetchCardData();

 // and use them then like this
       <Card title="Collected" value={totalPaidInvoices} type="collected" />
       <Card title="Pending" value={totalPendingInvoices} type="pending" />
       <Card title="Total Invoices" value={numberOfInvoices} type="invoices" />
       <Card
         title="Total Customers"
         value={numberOfCustomers}
         type="customers"
       />
```

or

```TypeScript
const cardData = await fetchCardData();

// and use them like this

       <Card title="Collected" value={cardData.totalPaidInvoices} type="collected" />
       <Card title="Pending" value={cardData.totalPendingInvoices} type="pending" />
       <Card title="Total Invoices" value={cardData.numberOfInvoices} type="invoices" />
       <Card
         title="Total Customers"
         value={cardData.numberOfCustomers}
         type="customers"
       />
```

## Had issue with routing, where page was showing up, that the "Page not found 404"

Problem here was, that I've created a `page.tsx` file in the wrong place. I've placed it in `/app/ui/invoices/create/page.tsx` and of course it wasn't available at `[localhost](http://localhost:3000/dashboard/invoices/create)`. Paying a closer attention at files location and creating it at the correct place, has solved the issue.

## IMPORTANT ABOUT SERVER ACTIONS

By adding the 'use server', you mark all the exported functions within the file as Server Actions. These server functions can then be imported and used in Client and Server components. Any functions included in this file that are not used will be automatically removed from the final application bundle.

You can also write Server Actions directly inside Server Components by adding "use server" inside the action. But for this course, we'll keep them all organized in a separate file. We recommend having a separate file for your actions.

Good to know: In HTML, you'd pass a URL to the action attribute. This URL would be the destination where your form data should be submitted (usually an API endpoint).
However, in React, the action attribute is considered a special prop - meaning React builds on top of it to allow actions to be invoked.
Behind the scenes, Server Actions create a POST API endpoint. This is why you don't need to create API endpoints manually when using Server Actions.

## Routing

`revalidatePath('/dashboard/invoices');` and `redirect('/dashboard/invoices');` cool features for server actions.
